



Skip to Main Content









Home


Search Jobs


Create Account


Log In


Help





About Grinnell College


Human Resources


Application FAQs


Benefits & Insurance


Academic Affairs & Dean of the College


Diversity & Inclusion


Center for Careers, Life, and Service


Community Enhancement and Engagement


Campus Safety & Security


Fire Safety Reports


Accessibility Services


Jobs available in the Grinnell area


VPAT Statement








Welcome to the Grinnell College Careers Site
 
Founded in 1846, Grinnell College enrolls approximately 1,600 undergraduate students from every state, including the District of Columbia, and more than 50 other countries. The College's mission is to provide students with a broad, deep, life-enhancing education that fosters professional success, personal growth and social responsibility. Grinnell College offers a collaborative, intellectually stimulating work environment.
 

To view open positions, select a category below:


Faculty Positions
Staff Positions
Student Experiential Learning Programs
Dean of Health and Wellness
Staff Counselor

 
New Users

To search positions, click the Search Jobs link on the navigation bar.
To apply for a job, click the Create Account link on the navigation bar, then follow the directions.

 
Returning Users

Click the Login link on the navigation bar, and enter your username and password.
This enables you to:
	
Edit your existing application.
Apply to new jobs without re-entering your application information.
Review the status of positions to which you have applied.



 
Questions? Contact the Human Resources department at jobs@grinnell.edu.
 
Annual Security Report Notice:

In accordance with federal law, the college maintains information on security policies and procedures and prepares an annual campus security and fire safety report containing three years' worth of campus crime statistics and security policy statements, fire safety information, and a description of where students, faculty, and staff should go to report crimes. The fire safety section of the annual report contains information on current fire safety practices and any fires that occurred within on-campus student housing facilities. The college will make this information available to any applicant or prospective employees.

You may obtain a copy of these reports by contacting the Grinnell College Campus Safety and Security Office, 1432 East Street, Grinnell, Iowa, 50112, phone number 641-269-4600. This information is also available on the internet by going to the Grinnell College Safety and Security Office website at: http://www.grinnell.edu/about/offices-services/security/clery_reports
 
Grinnell College is committed to establishing and maintaining a safe and nondiscriminatory educational environment for all College community members. It is committed to a policy of nondiscrimination in matters of admission, employment, and housing, and in access to and participation in its education programs, services, and activities. The College does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, national origin, age, sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, marital status, veteran status, religion, disability, creed, or any other protected class. 
















