
Google Tag Manager






Top Nav - Audience Nav


Students


Admitted Students


Incoming Student Checklist


New Student Orientation


Housing Information


Early Arrival


Move-In Information


Your Advisers




Current Students


GrinnellShare


Academic Catalog


Schedule of Courses


Handshake






Families


Family Resource Guide


Academic Calendar


Academic Catalog


Commencement


Transportation




Faculty and Staff


GrinnellShare


Academic Catalog


Dean's Office




Alumni


Alumni Community


Giving to Grinnell


Volunteering


News and Awards


Events


College Resources






Top Bar - Utility Links - Left


Visit


Apply


Give




Top Bar - Utility Links - Right


News


Calendar


People







      Skip to main content
    








Search Button 











Expand/Collpase Menu





About Grinnell
Expand




Grinnell at a Glance


Leadership and Administration


Grinnell Prize


Grinnell College National Poll






Admission and Aid
Expand




Why Grinnell


Tuition and Financial Aid


Visit Grinnell


Apply to Grinnell






Academics
Expand




Majors and Concentrations


The Academic Experience


Global


Centers, Programs, and Resources


Libraries






Life at Grinnell
Expand




Grinnell, Iowa


Athletics


Student Organizations


Arts & Culture


Campus Living


Transportation






After Grinnell
Expand




Center for Careers, Life, and Service


Experiential Learning


Graduate Outcomes


Alumni Stories




































      Grinnell Prize











Expand
                In This Section            




Grinnell Prize


Nominations


Winners


Prize Week Events


About the Prize


Prize Paintings















Home
About Grinnell
Grinnell Prize













        
                  Social responsibility calls for innovators of every kind.
      
  
    



Creators of sustainable agricultural technology. Champions for African children’s literature. Human rights advocates and natural disaster responders. The Grinnell College Innovator for Social Justice Prize — known familiarly as the Grinnell Prize — celebrates and elevates change-makers like these and all the good they do. Standing strong in the face of adversity. Creatively approaching the biggest challenges that confront society today. Bettering the world in a way we recognize as Grinnellian. That’s why we’re proud to honor who they are and the impact they’re making on our world.








The Grinnell College Innovator for Social Justice Prize (the Grinnell Prize) honors individuals who have demonstrated leadership in their fields and who show creativity, commitment, and extraordinary accomplishment in effecting positive social change. Each prize carries an award of $100,000, half to the winning individual(s) and half to their related, nominated organization.
Nominations for the 2020 Grinnell Prize will open July 1, 2019 and will be due by 11:59 p.m. on October 7, 2019. 
Grinnell Prize Nomination Information




























ABOUT THE PRIZE 

        
                  Our institution was built by social reformers.
      
  
    

The founders of Grinnell College believed we could always do more for others. From the beginning, we have viewed our role as an institution as a responsibility to contribute to the common good. With the creation of the Grinnell Prize, we’ve extended our educational mission beyond the campus and alumni community, to individuals anywhere who believe that innovative social justice programs create a better world.


Learn More













        
                  Nominations
      
  
    

Change-makers working on the cutting edge of technology. Leaders collaborating on solutions to pressing social justice issues. Visionaries tackling immediate challenges and addressing systemic issues. Mentors inspiring the next generation of social innovators.
They’re out there. Help us celebrate them. 


Tell Us Their Story













      Recent Winners










Shafiq R. Khan

Founder and CEO of EMPOWER PEOPLE

Shafiq R. Khan has been selected as the winner of the 2019 Grinnell College Innovator for Social Justice Prize. Khan and EMPOWER PEOPLE have been instrumental in the fight to eradicate bride trafficking in North India and in empowering the independence, agency, and leadership of girls and women who have been affected by this issue.
Learn more










Mélanie Marcel

Founder and CEO of SoScience

Marcel has become a national leader in France and a recognized expert on models for responsible research and innovation. She’s the founder and CEO of SoScience, a France-based group that gathers scientists and social entrepreneurs around the world to collaborate on research that solves global challenges.
Learn More










Gina L. Clayton

Founder and executive director of the Essie Justice Group

Clayton is an attorney, activist, and advocate for women, who founded and serves as executive director of the Essie Justice Group. Its mission is to support and mobilize women with incarcerated loved ones to fight for criminal-justice reform. 
Learn More










Luna Ranjit '00

Founder of Adhikaar

Ranjit is the first Grinnell College graduate to win the Grinnell Prize. She founded Adhikaar to promote human rights and effective social justice work in Nepali-speaking communities in New York City and the United States. She and her colleagues have been able to inform and work collaboratively with many other organizations, service providers, and government agencies.
Learn More











Department Information

sannings@grinnell.edu


Phone
(641) 269-4940


Center for Careers, Life, and Service
1127 Park Street
Grinnell, IA 50112
United States

















Request Info

Visit

Apply














1115 8th Avenue
Grinnell, IA 50112

641-269-4000


Directions and Map







Museum of Art

Athletics

Bookstore

Careers



Policies
PRIVACY STATEMENT
Consumer Information
Sexual Respect
































We use cookies to enable essential services and functionality on our site, enhance your user experience, provide a better service through personalized content, collect data on how visitors interact with our site, and enable advertising services.
To accept the use of cookies and continue on to the site, click "I Agree." For more information about our use of cookies and to opt-out of cookies at any time, please refer to our website Privacy Policy.



        I Agree
      

        More Info
      








