

Skip to content








Pushing beyond what's been done








    Menu	
Home
Projects  

Humanities and Social Studies Center  

Project Overview
Process
HSSC Planning Committee
Reports and Documents


Admission and Financial Aid Center  

Project Overview
Committee
Reports & Documents


Campus Landscaping, Entry, and Wayfinding  

Project Overview
Committee
Reports and Documents




Updates
Timeline
Watch the Transformation












Projects 






Sharing our Vision
Well-designed learning environments promote inquiry, collaboration, and creativity. Inquiry-based learning is active, dialectical, and productive. It requires students to think deeply and critically, and it provides skills they need to thrive in their personal, civic, and professional lives.
Considerable investments in facilities have modernized many buildings on campus to support new methods of teaching and learning. However, buildings associated with the social studies and non-fine arts humanities programs have lagged behind improvements on the rest of campus. In their current states, the physical environments of ARH and Carnegie Hall often do not support Grinnell’s collaborative, creative, and inquiry- focused pedagogy. The College’s new and renovated academic spaces will support the best student learning and most ambitious teaching that Grinnell College’s faculty can execute today and imagine for the future.
The Admission/Financial Aid Center project and landscaping plan/campus entry project are connected both to the branding work that’s been done and to our campus- community efforts to improve our sense of place.
Under Construction
Tour the Humanities and Social Studies Center guided by Rick Whitney,  Assistant Vice President for Facilities Management; and the Admission and Financial Aid Center, guided by Matt Schroeder, McGough Project Manager II.


Phase I Projects
Phase I includes three separate projects:

a new teaching and learning center known as the Humanities and Social Studies Center, of which ARH/Carnegie renovation and revitalization is a part  
a new Admission/Financial Aid Center, including financial aid offices
the Comprehensive Campus Landscaping, Entry, and Wayfinding project

Funding
In April 2016, the Grinnell College Board of Trustees authorized a Phase I project budget at a total not to exceed $140 million. This includes building design, construction, and renovation as well as the purchase of needed academic technology and furnishings.
The fundraising goal is $20 million. The balance of Phase I financial obligations will be covered by a combination of debt and possibly support from the endowment. A proposal regarding the specifics of the financing plan will be presented to the Board of Trustees in late 2016 or early 2017.
















 Grinnell College
1115 8th Avenue
Grinnell, IA 50112
+1-641-269-4000
  Contact Us  |  Directions & Maps 
 

 Policies  |  Web Accessibility Statement  |  Privacy Statement  |   Copyright Statement  |   Non-discrimination Policy  |   Consumer Information  |   Sexual Respect - Title IX

 



		Proudly powered by WordPress	





 

































































































































































