

Skip to content








Pushing beyond what's been done








    Menu	
Home
Projects  

Humanities and Social Studies Center  

Project Overview
Process
HSSC Planning Committee
Reports and Documents


Admission and Financial Aid Center  

Project Overview
Committee
Reports & Documents


Campus Landscaping, Entry, and Wayfinding  

Project Overview
Committee
Reports and Documents




Updates
Timeline
Watch the Transformation












Process 


Program Development and Verification. The project program defines the scope and budget of the project by articulating the functions that will be included as well as the associated square footage. The verification stage settles any lingering questions about the initial decision-making or unsettled issues in the program.
Conceptual Design. The conceptual design establishes the general shape of the project; it gives a visual articulation of the way that the guiding principles of the project will manifest themselves in physical space.
Schematic Design. The schematic design describes the project in three dimensions. The Grinnell Board of Trustees approved the schematic design for the HSSC in May 2016.
Design Development. The design development phase refines the schematic design, adding aspects such as equipment and furnishings, material, colors, and building systems. As of July 2016, the project is in this phase.
Construction Documents. Construction documents translate the project design from language and images meant to be understood by general users to the specifications required by contractors to build the project.
Construction. Builders build a building.
Commissioning and Occupancy. Commissioning involves testing the systems of the building to ensure that it performs as expected. Occupancy is the process of moving people into the building.











 Grinnell College
1115 8th Avenue
Grinnell, IA 50112
+1-641-269-4000
  Contact Us  |  Directions & Maps 
 

 Policies  |  Web Accessibility Statement  |  Privacy Statement  |   Copyright Statement  |   Non-discrimination Policy  |   Consumer Information  |   Sexual Respect - Title IX

 



		Proudly powered by WordPress	





 

































































































































































