

Skip to content








Pushing beyond what's been done








    Menu	
Home
Projects  

Humanities and Social Studies Center  

Project Overview
Process
HSSC Planning Committee
Reports and Documents


Admission and Financial Aid Center  

Project Overview
Committee
Reports & Documents


Campus Landscaping, Entry, and Wayfinding  

Project Overview
Committee
Reports and Documents




Updates
Timeline
Watch the Transformation












Admission & Financial Aid Center Project Overview 

The AFA from Park Ave.

Purpose of the Project: To provide a warm, welcoming, and engaging center where prospective students and their families will enjoy learning more about Grinnell College, the admission process and financial aid. The new facility is designed to enhance the campus visit experience, achieve closer proximity to the intellectual heartbeat of the campus, and positively influence the likelihood that prospective student visitors will apply for admission and, upon acceptance, choose to enroll.



Project Description at a Glance: A two-story building whose style bridges the classic campus to the east with the residential neighborhood to the west. The AFA will be constructed across the street from the new HSSC, at the southwest corner of Eighth Avenue and Park Street. To prepare the site, three language houses where students live will be moved a block north along the west side of Park Street. A fourth house, currently the home of the Center for Religion, Spirituality and Social Justice (CRSSJ), will be razed. The CRSSJ will move across Eighth Avenue to a newly renovated and expanded house.



Key Features: The AFA will welcome prospective students and their families to campus with spaces specifically designed to invite them to learn more about Grinnell, while also accommodating private conversations about admission and financial aid. The facility will be complemented by beautiful landscaping, including a covered walkway from the new 20-space parking lot to the front door.



Green Aspects of the Project: Geothermal heating and cooling system shared with the HSSC, LED lighting, bioswales to reclaim rain water for irrigation, and possible solar panels.
Estimated Cost: $12 million
Gross Square Footage: 18,250
Architect: Ayers Saint Gross (ASG), Baltimore, MD
Construction Manager: McGough Construction, St. Paul, MN
Estimated Completion Date: Fall 2018











 Grinnell College
1115 8th Avenue
Grinnell, IA 50112
+1-641-269-4000
  Contact Us  |  Directions & Maps 
 

 Policies  |  Web Accessibility Statement  |  Privacy Statement  |   Copyright Statement  |   Non-discrimination Policy  |   Consumer Information  |   Sexual Respect - Title IX

 



		Proudly powered by WordPress	





 

































































































































































