

Skip to content








Pushing beyond what's been done








    Menu	
Home
Projects  

Humanities and Social Studies Center  

Project Overview
Process
HSSC Planning Committee
Reports and Documents


Admission and Financial Aid Center  

Project Overview
Committee
Reports & Documents


Campus Landscaping, Entry, and Wayfinding  

Project Overview
Committee
Reports and Documents




Updates
Timeline
Watch the Transformation












Timeline 






Phase 1
2019

January 19


First Classes to be Held in the New Humanities and Social Studies Center
2018

October 30


Admission and Financial Aid Center Occupied
2017

December 13


HSSC Topping-off CeremonyCelebration for completion of the highest point of the new constructionMay 2


Campus CelebrationHundreds of members of the Grinnell community gathered to celebrate the construction of the new Humanities and Social Studies Complex. See details and photos.
2016

August 1


Campus Landscape, Entry, and Wayfinding Project KickoffJune 21


Admission/Financial Aid Center Site DesignatedCorner of 8th Avenue and Park Street named as the Admission/Financial Aid Center’s future site.
2015

December 1


Community FeedbackSince EYP was selected to work with the campus community in early 2015, more than 200 campus meetings, forums, workshops, and feedback sessions have been held to solicit input and refine design. Topics included the College’s commitments to accessibility, environmental sustainability, and the preservation and revitalization of existing iconic buildings.February 1


Architecture Firm EYP SelectedEYP is the architecture firm selected for the Humanities and Social Studies Complex. 
EYP is the architecture firm selected for the Humanities and Social Studies Center. McGough Construction is the building contractor. ASG is the design firm chosen for both the Admission/Financial Aid Center and the Comprehensive Landscape, Entry, and Wayfinding project.
Work on the Humanities and Social Studies Center is in the design development stage (as of July 2016). Preparatory site work began immediately following Reunion in June. Actual construction will begin in the first quarter of 2017.
In June 2016, the corner of 8th Avenue and Park Street was named as the Admission/Financial Aid Center’s future site. Decisions are forthcoming concerning relocation of existing structures and alternative accommodations for the CRSSJ and other student and program occupants.
Design work for the College Comprehensive Landscape, Entry, and Wayfinding project is under way and will include designs for a cohesive flow from campus into the zone of confluence between campus and the city of Grinnell.
Construction timelines for the latter two projects are not yet fully developed.















 Grinnell College
1115 8th Avenue
Grinnell, IA 50112
+1-641-269-4000
  Contact Us  |  Directions & Maps 
 

 Policies  |  Web Accessibility Statement  |  Privacy Statement  |   Copyright Statement  |   Non-discrimination Policy  |   Consumer Information  |   Sexual Respect - Title IX

 



		Proudly powered by WordPress	





 












































































































































































