
Google Tag Manager






Top Nav - Audience Nav


Students


Admitted Students


Incoming Student Checklist


New Student Orientation


Housing Information


Early Arrival


Move-In Information


Your Advisers




Current Students


GrinnellShare


Academic Catalog


Schedule of Courses


Handshake






Families


Family Resource Guide


Academic Calendar


Academic Catalog


Commencement


Transportation




Faculty and Staff


GrinnellShare


Academic Catalog


Dean's Office




Alumni


Alumni Community


Giving to Grinnell


Volunteering


News and Awards


Events


College Resources






Top Bar - Utility Links - Left


Visit


Apply


Give




Top Bar - Utility Links - Right


News


Calendar


People







      Skip to main content
    








Search Button 











Expand/Collpase Menu





About Grinnell
Expand




Grinnell at a Glance


Leadership and Administration


Grinnell Prize


Grinnell College National Poll






Admission and Aid
Expand




Why Grinnell


Tuition and Financial Aid


Visit Grinnell


Apply to Grinnell






Academics
Expand




Majors and Concentrations


The Academic Experience


Global


Centers, Programs, and Resources


Libraries






Life at Grinnell
Expand




Grinnell, Iowa


Athletics


Student Organizations


Arts & Culture


Campus Living


Transportation






After Grinnell
Expand




Center for Careers, Life, and Service


Experiential Learning


Graduate Outcomes


Alumni Stories




































      Maps and Directions











Expand
                In This Section            




Grinnell, Iowa


Maps and Directions


Restaurants


Hotels and Lodging


Living and Working in Grinnell















Home
Life at Grinnell
Grinnell, Iowa
Maps and Directions












Grinnell sits at the heart of a constellation of Midwestern cities. The College's location in central Iowa makes it an easy drive from any major metropolis in the Midwest:
Des Moines (1 hour)
Omaha (3 hours)
Kansas City (4 hours)
Madison (4 hours)
Chicago (5 hours)
Minneapolis-St.Paul (5 hours)
St. Louis (5 hours)









Open interactive map in a new window.






Driving Instructions
From I-80
The Grinnell exit (exit 182) off I-80 is approximately halfway between Iowa City and Des Moines.
Take exit 182 and proceed north three miles on Highway 146.
Turn east (right) on Sixth Avenue (Highway 6).
Proceed two and one half blocks on Sixth Avenue to the Grinnell College campus.
From Southwest Wisconsin
Take Highway 151 through Dubuque, Iowa, to I-380 in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
Take I-380 south for approximately 16 miles and then head west on I-80.
Take exit 182 and drive north three miles on Highway 146.
Turn east (right) on Sixth Avenue (Highway 6).
Proceed two and one half blocks on Sixth Avenue to the Grinnell College campus.
From Waterloo and Other Points in Northeast Iowa
Take Highway 63 south to the intersection with Highway 6.
Head west on Highway 6 into Grinnell. Highway 6 becomes Sixth Avenue.
Grinnell College will be on the right.
From the Twin Cities
Take I-35 south to Des Moines, Iowa, and then take I-80 east.
Take exit 182 and proceed north three miles on Highway 146.
Turn east (right) on Sixth Avenue (Highway 6).
Proceed two and one half blocks on Sixth Avenue to the Grinnell College campus.
From St. Louis
Take I-70 west to Columbia, Mo., and then take Highway 63 north to New Sharon, Iowa.
At the stop sign in the center of New Sharon, proceed straight to take Highway 146 north to Grinnell.
Turn east (right) on Sixth Avenue (Highway 6).
Proceed two and one half blocks on Sixth Avenue to the Grinnell College campus.
Airports
If you do not live in the Midwest, you can fly to Des Moines or Cedar Rapids. Both airports are about one hour from Grinnell College. For most of the year, the Office of Admission provides transportation to and from the Des Moines airport for prospective students who are traveling without an adult in conjunction with an official (scheduled through the Office of Admission) overnight on-campus. There is no charge for this service. Reservations must be made at least 10 working days in advance. Your flights should arrive and depart between the hours of 10 a.m. and 9 p.m. A driver will meet you at the exit door nearest the baggage claim area. 
Visiting families arriving at the Des Moines international Airport should plan to rent a car to travel to and from Grinnell College. Grinnell College does not provide shuttle services within Grinnell or to and from the airport for visiting families. Taxis, ride share services, and public transportation are not available within the town of Grinnell or to get you from Grinnell back to the airport. 
When You Arrive
During the academic year, our office hours are 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. During the fall and in the month of April, we are also open on Saturdays from 8 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. During the summer months, our office hours are 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Prospective students and families: 
When you arrive on campus during our office hours, please go directly to the Office of Admission on the first floor of the Admission and Student Financial Services building, which is located on the southwest corner of 8th Avenue and Park St.




























Request Info

Visit

Apply














1115 8th Avenue
Grinnell, IA 50112

641-269-4000


Directions and Map







Museum of Art

Athletics

Bookstore

Careers



Policies
PRIVACY STATEMENT
Consumer Information
Sexual Respect
































We use cookies to enable essential services and functionality on our site, enhance your user experience, provide a better service through personalized content, collect data on how visitors interact with our site, and enable advertising services.
To accept the use of cookies and continue on to the site, click "I Agree." For more information about our use of cookies and to opt-out of cookies at any time, please refer to our website Privacy Policy.



        I Agree
      

        More Info
      








