
Google Tag Manager






Top Nav - Audience Nav


Students


Admitted Students


Incoming Student Checklist


New Student Orientation


Housing Information


Early Arrival


Move-In Information


Your Advisers




Current Students


GrinnellShare


Academic Catalog


Schedule of Courses


Handshake






Families


Family Resource Guide


Academic Calendar


Academic Catalog


Commencement


Transportation




Faculty and Staff


GrinnellShare


Academic Catalog


Dean's Office




Alumni


Alumni Community


Giving to Grinnell


Volunteering


News and Awards


Events


College Resources






Top Bar - Utility Links - Left


Visit


Apply


Give




Top Bar - Utility Links - Right


News


Calendar


People







      Skip to main content
    








Search Button 











Expand/Collpase Menu





About Grinnell
Expand




Grinnell at a Glance


Leadership and Administration


Grinnell Prize


Grinnell College National Poll






Admission and Aid
Expand




Why Grinnell


Tuition and Financial Aid


Visit Grinnell


Apply to Grinnell






Academics
Expand




Majors and Concentrations


The Academic Experience


Global


Centers, Programs, and Resources


Libraries






Life at Grinnell
Expand




Grinnell, Iowa


Athletics


Student Organizations


Arts & Culture


Campus Living


Transportation






After Grinnell
Expand




Center for Careers, Life, and Service


Experiential Learning


Graduate Outcomes


Alumni Stories


























      Consumer Information











Expand
                In This Section            




Understand Your Award


Frequently Asked Questions


Award Terms and Conditions


Loan Application Process


Special Programs


Consumer Information


Contact the Financial Aid Team















Home
Admission and Aid
Tuition and Financial Aid
Understand Your Award
Consumer Information














Calculate Net Price

Apply for Aid

Book Appointment

Interact with Us







If you are having difficulties locating certain consumer information about Grinnell, please contact the Office of Admission or the Office of  Financial Aid.
General Information about Grinnell College
Accreditation
National Center for Education Statistics College Navigator Website
Graduation and Retention Rates
Student Body Diversity - Common Data Set
File a Complaint or Concern with The Iowa College Student Aid Commission. Iowa College Aid accepts concerns and complaints from any student attending an Iowa school regardless of the student's state of residency.

Grinnell College Office of Financial Aid Home Page and Statistics
Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy
Cost of Attendance
Net Price Calculator
Scholarships and Grants
Financing and Loans
Student Employment
Eligibility Requirements and Procedures for Applying for Aid
Rights and Responsibilities of Students Receiving Title IV, HEA Student Financial Aid
Impacts of Illegal Drugs on Financial Aid Eligibility
Search for State Higher Education Agencies and State Grant Assistance
Financial Aid for Off-Campus Study
Refunds and Withdrawals

Consumer Information from the Department of Education
FERPA and Confidentiality of Student Records
Employment and Graduate/Professional School Placement of Grinnell College Graduates
Vaccination Policy
Academic Program
Academic Catalog
Articulation Agreements — Grinnell College currently participates in articulation agreements with the following institutions:
	Des Moines Area Community College (DMACC)
University of Iowa
California Institute of Technology
Columbia University
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
Washington University

Textbooks: Search Schedule of Courses
Constitution Day - Constitution Day is September 17. When Constitution Day falls on a weekday, the Rosenfield Program will hold a program on Constitution Day. When it falls on a weekend, the program will be held during the preceding or following week. Visit the campus calendar for more information regarding specific Constitution Day programming.
Degree Programs
Facilities: visit the interactive campus map and click on the pinpoints for building information and descriptions.
Faculty - see departments
Graduation Requirements
Plans for Improving the Academic Program
Search Schedule of Courses
Student Handbook
Title II Teacher Preparation Report
Transfer of Credit Policy
Athletic Participation Data
Equity in Athletics - Grinnell College's Report on Athletic Program Participation Rates and Financial Support Data contains information on Grinnell’s commitment to providing equal opportunities for men’s and women’s collegiate athletics. It includes information on varsity athletic participation rates, coaching demographics, and budgetary considerations.  The report is also available from the Office of Postsecondary Education. For additional information or to request a paper copy, email the Department of Physical Education or call 641-269-3800.
Loan Information
Student Loan Information from the Department of Education
StudentLoans.gov for Entrance and Exit Loan Counseling
Terms and Conditions of the Title IV, HEA Loans 
National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS) - Loan information for Federal Direct Student Loans (Subsidized, Unsubsidized, and PLUS) and Federal Perkins Loans, will be submitted to the NSLDS and will be accessible by guaranty agencies, lenders, and institutions determined to be authorized users of the data system.
Institutional Code of Conduct for Educational Loans
Historical Lender List - Grinnell College does not participate in a preferred lender arrangement. Students looking for assistance in selecting a private lender are provided the Historical Lender List.
Private Loan Self-Certification Form
Contact the Office of Financial Aid directly.
Drug and Alcohol Abuse Prevention
Students: See the Alcohol and Other Drugs Policy of the Student Handbook
Employees: See the Handbooks under Policies and Procedures
Campus Safety
Current Clery Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Sexual Misconduct Policies
Disabilities
Disability Resources (Academic Advising)
Accessibility Services
Your Responsibilities At Grinnell College With Respect To Copyright Laws
Copyright Law
Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 (DMCA)
Peer To Peer File Sharing Policy - Sharing Music & Movies
Veterans
Certifying Official: The certifying official on campus is the Assistant Registrar. Contact the Registrar’s Office at 641-269-3450 for questions. The responsibilities of the certifying official include certifying paperwork from the VA for Veterans Assistance Benefit payments.
Point of Contact: The designated point of contact on campus is the Associate Director of Financial Aid. Contact Financial Aid at 641-269-3250 for questions. The responsibilities of the point of contact include advising on the availability of campus resources.
Voter Registration
Voter Registration Information
Iowa Voter Registration Form





























Request Info

Visit

Apply














1115 8th Avenue
Grinnell, IA 50112

641-269-4000


Directions and Map







Museum of Art

Athletics

Bookstore

Careers



Policies
PRIVACY STATEMENT
Consumer Information
Sexual Respect
































We use cookies to enable essential services and functionality on our site, enhance your user experience, provide a better service through personalized content, collect data on how visitors interact with our site, and enable advertising services.
To accept the use of cookies and continue on to the site, click "I Agree." For more information about our use of cookies and to opt-out of cookies at any time, please refer to our website Privacy Policy.



        I Agree
      

        More Info
      








