
Google Tag Manager






Top Nav - Audience Nav


Students


Admitted Students


Incoming Student Checklist


New Student Orientation


Housing Information


Early Arrival


Move-In Information


Your Advisers




Current Students


GrinnellShare


Academic Catalog


Schedule of Courses


Handshake






Families


Family Resource Guide


Academic Calendar


Academic Catalog


Commencement


Transportation




Faculty and Staff


GrinnellShare


Academic Catalog


Dean's Office




Alumni


Alumni Community


Giving to Grinnell


Volunteering


News and Awards


Events


College Resources






Top Bar - Utility Links - Left


Visit


Apply


Give




Top Bar - Utility Links - Right


News


Calendar


People







      Skip to main content
    








Search Button 











Expand/Collpase Menu





About Grinnell
Expand




Grinnell at a Glance


Leadership and Administration


Grinnell Prize


Grinnell College National Poll






Admission and Aid
Expand




Why Grinnell


Tuition and Financial Aid


Visit Grinnell


Apply to Grinnell






Academics
Expand




Majors and Concentrations


The Academic Experience


Global


Centers, Programs, and Resources


Libraries






Life at Grinnell
Expand




Grinnell, Iowa


Athletics


Student Organizations


Arts & Culture


Campus Living


Transportation






After Grinnell
Expand




Center for Careers, Life, and Service


Experiential Learning


Graduate Outcomes


Alumni Stories


























      Residence Halls











Expand
                In This Section            




Residential Life


Residence Halls


Language and Project Houses


Programs and Breaks















Home
Life at Grinnell
Campus Living
Residential Life
Residence Halls












In addition to providing students safe, comfortable living spaces, the residence halls at Grinnell College foster a sense of community, and provide a living and learning environment which complements their academic experience. Within these halls, Grinnellians learn to practice self-governance and incorporate the philosophy in their daily lives. Student volunteers fill the roles of Student Advisers, Hall Social Coordinators and Hall Wellness Coordinators, and are charged with building community and serving as a resource for their residents. Student Staff are supervised by live-in, masters-level Residence Life Coordinators. Grinnell's Residence Halls are located in three areas of the campus: North, South, and East. Each group of halls has its own laundry facilities and computer labs. Most residence halls have:
kitchens equipped with stoves, ovens, microwaves and fridges
spacious lounges with televisions, cable service, and DVD players
wireless internet connection
rooms with a dresser, desk and chair, and a closet or wardrobe for each student
custodial services in bathrooms and common areas (lounges, bathrooms, and kitchens)
maintenance services
security enabled entry doors that open with student IDs; student rooms are equipped with key entry locks
Cats and dogs are not permitted in the residence halls (with the exception of medical accommodation). Please see the pet policy for more information.
This web resource also contains a comparison of the amenities and structure of our different residence halls located at the bottom of the page. If you have any additional questions, ask us!
North Campus
The northernmost part of Grinnell's Campus, the North Campus residence halls originally housed Grinnell's male students before co-educational living was introduced during the 1968-69 school year. North Campus's proximity to academic buildings and Harris Center, rooms with views of Mac Field, and spacious lounges draw residents to it. There are three "clusters" on North Campus. The North Campus clusters and residence halls are:
Smounker
Younker Hall
Smith Hall
Clangrala
Langan Hall
Rawson Hall
Gates Hall
Clark Hall
CaNaDa
Cowles Hall
Dibble Hall
Norris Hall
South Campus
South Campus, which originally comprised the all-female residence halls, is located between 8th avenue and 6th avenue. Residents love South Campus for its closed loggia (which is a blessing during the winter months), its vibrancy, and the presence of Bob's Underground and the Gardner Lounge. There are two "clusters" on South Campus. The South Campus clusters and residence halls are:
Loosehead
Loose Hall
Read Hall
Haines Hall
Jamaland
James Hall
Cleveland Hall
Main Hall
East Campus
East Campus has the four newest residence halls. Residents love East Campus for its numerous lounges, the availability of air conditioning, nice laundry facilities, elevators in every residence hall, and for its proximity to the athletics facilities. This "cluster" is referred to as bEast. The residence halls within East are:
LaKerRoJe
Lazier Hall
Kershaw Hall
Rose Hall
Rathje Hall





























Request Info

Visit

Apply














1115 8th Avenue
Grinnell, IA 50112

641-269-4000


Directions and Map







Museum of Art

Athletics

Bookstore

Careers



Policies
PRIVACY STATEMENT
Consumer Information
Sexual Respect
































We use cookies to enable essential services and functionality on our site, enhance your user experience, provide a better service through personalized content, collect data on how visitors interact with our site, and enable advertising services.
To accept the use of cookies and continue on to the site, click "I Agree." For more information about our use of cookies and to opt-out of cookies at any time, please refer to our website Privacy Policy.



        I Agree
      

        More Info
      








