









USA Ultimate
The United States national governing body for the sport of Ultimate



Facebook
Twitter
Google
Youtube



Member Account









About


Contact Us


USA Ultimate Staff


Youth Division


College Division


Club Division


Masters Division


Beach Division


USA Ultimate Affiliates


State-Based Organizations


Board of Directors




Where to Play


About Ultimate


Spirit of the Game




Sponsorship


About USA Ultimate


Annual Report (2017)


Employment & Volunteer Job Opportunities




Hall of Fame


Governance


Bylaws (2014)


Suspensions


Strategic Plan (2019-2021)




Equity and Diversity


History / Archives


FAQs


Strategic Plan (2019-2021)






News


USA Ultimate Mobile App


iOS


Android




USA Ultimate Magazine


Rankings


College Men's


College Women's


TCT Men's


TCT Mixed


TCT Women's




Videos


USA Ultimate Weekly


College News


Triple Crown Tour News


Beach News


Youth News


National Teams News


All News Posts






Events


Tournament Calendar


League Calendar




Event Archives ('79-'18)


2018


2017


2016


2015


2014


2013


2012


2011


2010


2009


2008


2007


2006


2005


2004


2003


2002


2001


2000


1999


1998


1997


1996


1995


1994


1993


1992


1991


1990


1989


1988


1987


1986


1985


1984


1983


1982


1981


1980


1979




Beach Championships


D-III College


D-I College


H.S. States


YCC


U.S. Open


Elite-Select Challenge


Pro-Elite Challenge


Select Flight Invite - East


Select Flight Invite - West


Pro Championships


National Championships


Masters Championships






Competition Divisions


Youth Division


Youth Guidelines (2019)




College Division


College Eligibility


College Guidelines (2019)


College Mixed Guidelines (2018)


College Resources




Club Division (Triple Crown Tour)


TCT Guidelines (2019)


U.S. Open Club Championships




Masters Division


Masters Guidelines (2019)




Beach Division


Beach Guidelines (2019)




USA Ultimate National Teams


2018 WU24


2018 WUCC


2018 WMUCC


2018 WJUC


2019 WU24








Programs


Affiliates


About


Apply


Benefits


Contacts


Event Registration


FAQ


Grants


Recognition


Written Resources




Camps


Chaperone


Youth Safety




Coaching


Coaching Development Program


Athlete Protection




Event Sanctioning & Insurance


Tournament Sanctioning


League Sanctioning


Practice Insurance




Girls' Ultimate Movement (GUM)


Learn to Play


National Conventions


New Start Grant Kits


Organizer Resources


Bid to Host USA Ultimate Events


Tournament Director's Certification Program


Youth & Education Resources


Women's Development


College Development


Ultimate in Your Community




Parent Resources


Rules & Officiating


Rules


Observer Certification Program


Disc Standards




State-Based Organizations


Benefits & Requirements


FAQ


Contact State Orgs








Membership


Benefits & Value


Gift Certificates


Impact of Our Members


Membership Levels


Lifetime Members


Youth-Serving Organizations




Online Accounts


Play It Forward


Registration Forms: Waiver & Medical Authorization


Signature Series Disc


Trends Over Time






Shop


USA Ultimate Discs, Kits & Merchandise


Apparel & Accessories


Men


Women


Kids


T-Shirts


Sweats




Licensed Merchandise Suppliers


Approved Disc Models






Spirit of the Game


Spirit of Coaching


Spirit Awards


Spirit Captain Role






Rules


11th Edition Rules


Observer Program


Observer Contacts








Athletes


Rules of Ultimate


Where to Play


Sanctioned Event Registration


Athlete Protection






Coaches


Coaching Requirements


The Coaching Development Program


Register for a workshop




Become a USA Ultimate Coach Member


Athlete Protection


2019 National Team Coaching Symposium






Fans


Event Calendar


History / Event Archives


Parent Resources


Athlete Protection






Organizers / Admins


Resources


Bid to Host USA Ultimate Events


Tournament Director's Certification Program




Event Sanctioning


League Competition


Tournament Competition


Other Development (Practices, Clinics, etc)




Insurance


Become a Chaperone


Athlete Protection






 





Home>Coaches>Become a USA Ultimate Coach Member














 
Membership Overview |  BENEFITS, VALUE & ELIGIBILITY  |  MEMBERS' IMPACT  |  TRENDS  |  LOGIN / JOIN

The USA Ultimate membership experience includes supporting and participating in the ultimate community. As a member, you are not only a vital part of efforts to grow ultimate, but you also receive numerous members-only benefits. Whether you are looking to play, coach, organize, officiate, volunteer, chaperone, watch or just generally support ultimate as fan or family member, there is a membership level designed for you.
 



 

 
 
 

 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
Join today!
 
Give someone the gift of membership!
 
Donate to help grow ultimate! 
 



 
 
Questions? Please contact us at info@hq.usaultimate.org






 2019 Membership Rates
All annual memberships expire 12/31 of the corresponding appropriate calendar year. 
(12/31/2019 for 1-year, 12/31/2020 for 2-year, 12/31/2021 for 3-year, 12/31/2023 for 5-year). 

      


Annual   Membership Levels
1-Year
3-Year (save $5   per year)
5-Year (get 5th   year free)
Fall Intro* (mid-year, half price for brand new players)
Fall + Next Year Too** (year and a half);


Youth Player (for   those not yet graduated from high school, under age 20)
$38 
 
$19   
$51   


College Player 
$61 
$168 
$244   
$31   
$79   


Adult Player
$61 
$168 
$244   
$31   
$79   


Coach + Player combo¹
$72 
$201 
$288   
 
$90   


Coach (non-player)¹
$39 
$102 
$156   
$52   


Friends & Family   (non-participant)²
$31 
$78 
$124   
$44   


Youth-Serving   Organization²
Free with LTP kit purchase.


Affiliate   Recreational Player (only for local USAU Affiliate-owned, non-championship, non-regular season, recreational sanctioned events)

            $17 (Adult)
$13 (Youth)

See   the current list of approved local USA Ultimate Affiliate organizations



 

      


Single   Recreational Event Level
Per   Event


Recreational Event (only for a   single non-championship, non-regular season event that is owned & operated by a non-Affiliate organization)

Youth:   $13 per event
Adult: $18 per event



Lifetime Membership
Never expires! No more   annual renewals!


Lifetime (covers   both playing AND coaching with completed coaching requirements)
$999 



¹ Coaching levels require special education requirements including online test, NCSI background check, CDC Concussion and Safesport training. See USA Ultimate Coaching Requirements. 
 
² Indicates non-player, non-coach, non-competition participant level.
 
* Fall intro only available starting in mid-August to brand new, first-time players; expires 12/31/19.
 
** Fall + Next Year Too only available starting in mid-September; expires 12/31/20. 
 

USA Ultimate memberships are non-refundable and non-transferable. Membership is a voluntary relationship as part of the national community of ultimate players, coaches, organizers, parents, friends, family and supporters. It is not tied to any specific event or program that USA Ultimate operates or sanctions, nor is membership a guarantee of participation (please be familiar with all guidelines and restrictions, criteria, dates, locations, etc associated with any event or program before assuming eligibility to participate). USA Ultimate operates for the benefit of and in service to its members, and thus, nearly all of its activities, events, and programs are restricted to its members, whose dues cover the operating costs of the organization.




USA Ultimate memberships are based on the calendar year (January 1 – December 31). Any annual memberships purchased through November 30 will expire on December 31 of the current year. Memberships for the following year will become available on/around December 1.




Intro memberships are only available from mid-August until the end of November for the Adult, College and Youth membership levels to anyone who has never had a USA Ultimate membership. Note: They will expire a relatively short time later at the end ot the calendar year (on 12/31).




Recreational Event and Affiliate memberships do not cover participation in USA Ultimate championship nor in college/club "regular season" events. The USA Ultimate staff resources for those events involve the overhead of all staff and departments.




Affiliate memberships only cover participation in local affiliate-owned and operated events. Affiliate memberships are not valid for championship or college/club "regular season" events. (click here to see a list of current USA Ultimate Affiliates).




Non-player level memberships include coach, friends & family, and youth serving organization; 

               
            A portion of all dues go to fund development of State-Based Organizations (SBO) and are shared directly with the SBOs.  [Chart of SBO membership shares]
  

 




Frequently Asked Questions
Why is membership required to participate in USA Ultimate supported programs?
As a member-based non-profit body, every program and activity that USA Ultimate operates or supports is on behalf of and in service to our members. Membership dues typically make up over half (about 60%) of USA Ultimate's annual operating budget, providing the base of resources that are vitally needed to employ staff and maintain facilities for launching and managing programs around the nation. In a very real way, everything that USA Ultimate does is thanks to and designed for our members. That commitment to members and participant requirement for membership is the main reason that such a large variety of levels of membership are available, because there are many different ways that someone might be interested in supporting and engaging directly with USA Ultimate programs, either as players, coaches, organizers, observers, friends & family or other member supporters. USA Ultimate's commitment is to serve members at the highest possible levels, in a way that increases member satisfaction and retains members to renew year after year, while also engaging brand new members. Membership has the absolute highest value towards accomplishing our mission and our vision.
Can I upgrade my membership? How?
Yes, you can upgrade an annual membership (i.e., not a single Recreational Event-only level) from one type or duration to a higher one, as long as you upgrade for the full remainder of your membership period (i.e., all remaining years of multi-year memberships).  You'll also need to maintain the same participation benefits with both memberships or increase them (e.g., player-level and/or coach-level; you can upgrade an Adult player membership to Coach/Player combo membership but not to just Coach level membership).

Follow these instructions on How to Upgrade your Membership from your USA Ultimate account.
How to upgrade multi-year memberships in subsequent years (after the first year):
1. Email your request to info@hq.usaultimate.org.
2. You will receive an invoice via email for the difference in cost of the memberships.
3. Once you complete the payment, notify info@hq.usaultimate.org. Once we receive notification, we will upgrade your membership.
Please allow a few days for the process to complete (request, invoice, payment, and processing the upgrade). 
Are memberships refundable or transferable?
No, USA Ultimate memberships are not refundable nor transferable, largely because they are not a guarantee of specific participation eligibility or event timing.  Memberships do not tie directly to a specific event or program that USA Ultimate operates or sanctions.  
The nature of a membership, both generally and specifically with USA Ultimate, is one of a voluntary relationship that makes the member become part of the national community of ultimate players, coaches, organizers, parents, friends, family and supporters.  Because USA Ultimate operates for the benefit of and in service to its members, all members' dues help to cover the operating costs of the organization and the many efforts made to advance the sport at all levels across the nation.
Are memberships tax deductible?
No, unfortunately not. Even though USA Ultimate is a federally registered 501(c)(3) not-for-profit membership-based organization, whenever a member of such a non-profit receives any benefits in return for membership dues, the general IRS rule is that those dues are not deductible on personal income tax return filings.  That said, any pure donations given to USA Ultimate or to The Ultimate Foundation, in addition to or instead of membership dues, are 100% tax deductible!
It can be a bit confusing, because sometimes when someone becomes a "member" of a zoo or a museum, which are also often incorporated non-profits, they can deduct some portion of their membership from taxes. That only happens when the zoo or museum has established a "value" of the membership that is less than the amount paid by the member, with the overage amount being considered essentially a "donation" to the cause of the zoo or museum. So then the difference between the amount paid in dues and the "value" becomes tax deductible. In USA Ultimate’s case, the values of benefits that have been budgeted actually correspond to the dues amounts of our memberships, so we cannot declare any portion to be a tax deductible "donation" to the organization.  
What should I do if I can't access my account?
If you can't access your account because you've forgotten your  username or password, simply request a password or username reset link to be sent to the e-mail on the account. 
If you no longer have access to the e-mail assigned to your account, just contact USA Ultimate at info@hq.usaultimate.org with your name and date of birth so we can reset your account and get you going ASAP!
 
Registration Forms 
(Click forms below for downloadable/printable PDF files.)



 

Medical Authorization Form

Parents/guardians of minors (participants under 18 years of age) must complete this form in order to compete in USA Ultimate events.  
Medical Authorization Forms are valid for one year from the date that they are signed. 
The team chaperone or coach must have a hard copy of this form at all events, including practice. USA Ultimate does not need a copy of this form.

 

Waiver of Liability (and Membership Form)

Waivers can also be signed online in your member account. Memberships and waivers are valid through the end of the calendar year.  Each will expire on the subsequent 12/31 and must be renewed thereafter. 
NOTE: Each account must have a unique email address. The same email address cannot be used for 2 different accounts. 

 




 
Where to Play








 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 

 Alabama

 Hawaii

 Michigan

 North Carolina

 Utah


 

 Alaska

 Idaho

 Minnesota

 North Dakota

 Vermont


 

 Arizona

 Illinois

 Mississippi

 Ohio

 Virginia


 

 Arkansas

 Indiana

 Missouri

 Oklahoma

 Washington


 

 California

 Iowa

 Montana

 Oregon

 West Virginia


 

 Colorado

 Kansas

 Nebraska

 Pennsylvania

 Wisconsin


 

 Connecticut

 Kentucky

 Nevada

 Rhode Island

 Wyoming


 

 Delaware

 Louisiana

 New Hampshire

 South Carolina
 
 


 

 District of Columbia

 Maine

 New Jersey

 South Dakota
 
 


 

 Florida

 Maryland

 New Mexico

 Tennessee
 
 


 

 Georgia

 Massachusetts

 New York

 Texas
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








 
 
 
 









		© 2019 usaultimate.org All Rights Reserved.
		
Privacy Policy
Site Map
Contact Us
Mobile
RSS



USA Ultimate

5825 Delmonico Dr. • Suite 350
Colorado Springs,  
		CO
80919
USA

800.872.4384 Work










