
Google Tag Manager






Top Nav - Audience Nav


Students


Admitted Students


Incoming Student Checklist


New Student Orientation


Housing Information


Early Arrival


Move-In Information


Your Advisers




Current Students


GrinnellShare


Academic Catalog


Schedule of Courses


Handshake






Families


Family Resource Guide


Academic Calendar


Academic Catalog


Commencement


Transportation




Faculty and Staff


GrinnellShare


Academic Catalog


Dean's Office




Alumni


Alumni Community


Giving to Grinnell


Volunteering


News and Awards


Events


College Resources






Top Bar - Utility Links - Left


Visit


Apply


Give




Top Bar - Utility Links - Right


News


Calendar


People







      Skip to main content
    








Search Button 











Expand/Collpase Menu





About Grinnell
Expand




Grinnell at a Glance


Leadership and Administration


Grinnell Prize


Grinnell College National Poll






Admission and Aid
Expand




Why Grinnell


Tuition and Financial Aid


Visit Grinnell


Apply to Grinnell






Academics
Expand




Majors and Concentrations


The Academic Experience


Global


Centers, Programs, and Resources


Libraries






Life at Grinnell
Expand




Grinnell, Iowa


Athletics


Student Organizations


Arts & Culture


Campus Living


Transportation






After Grinnell
Expand




Center for Careers, Life, and Service


Experiential Learning


Graduate Outcomes


Alumni Stories




































      Academics

















        
                  We prefer defining our own path for discovery.
      
  
    



This is your education. Imagine what happens when you have the freedom to explore combinations of academic interests, issues within society, and other parts of the world? When it happens alongside the support and resources you’ll find at Grinnell, we think you uncover an intellectual journey that’s never done before.








      The Academic Experience











        
                  A liberal arts foundation.
      
  
    

You’ll gather information. You’ll collaborate with thinkers of every kind. You’ll deconstruct materials and reconstruct methods. You’ll also sharpen your skills for communicating what you’re working on, how it relates to others, and why it matters for the greater world.













        
                  An individually advised curriculum.
      
  
    

Your interests will grow, combine, and veer in uncharted directions. That’s good, because we believe that’s where new opportunities take hold. Working with your adviser, you’ll have the freedom and guidance to put together a curriculum tailored just for you.













        
                  Creativity and innovation.
      
  
    

To bring new ideas to the table and then out into the world, you have to question what’s been done before. Here, we encourage you to venture into unknown territory in new fields and different philosophies.



















Majors & Concentrations

        
                  Some set a plan in stone. Others set a few ideas in motion.
      
  
    

Working alongside your advisers, you’ll choose from over 500 courses across our many divisions and departments. You don’t have to declare a major until the second half of your sophomore year. So you’ve got time to explore your options, or you can focus your interests from the get-go.


Chart your course




















Global

        
                  Studying abroad for a semester is just the start.
      
  
    

At Grinnell, global understanding goes beyond a single experience. Every place, every point in time, and every culture, brings with a unique point of view and version of the human experience. On campus, Grinnellians study these experiences and use them as lenses for approaching our disciplines, communities, and our impact on others. You’ll have access to global programs for language development, intercultural exchange, and community engagement, for here or wherever your studies take you.


Explore more












        
                  Academic Resources
      
  
    



At Grinnell, you never have to go it alone. As you grow your interests and advance further in your area of study, you’ll have multiple advisers, resources, and networks to support you, every step of the way.
Learn more
















        
                  Advising
      
  
    

Behind every Grinnellian’s success is a set of life-changing mentors. They’ll give you the guidance and support you need to make an intellectual journey that’s tailored entirely to you.


Build your team













        
                  Centers and Programs
      
  
    

Grinnell is home to a wide variety of organizations, partnerships, programs, and more. That’s even more space and mentors for let your intellectual interests to take hold.


Build your connections













        
                  Academic Support
      
  
    

To accommodate all types of learning styles, research topics, and cross-disciplinary approaches, we have several labs filled with people ready to help you, tutor you, and answer your questions.


Build your skillset



















Libraries

        
                  A growing world of information, waiting for you to explore. 
      
  
    

The expert faculty and staff at our three libraries are available to help connect you to the resources and you need to dive even deeper into inquiry.


Browse the collections

































Request Info

Visit

Apply














1115 8th Avenue
Grinnell, IA 50112

641-269-4000


Directions and Map







Museum of Art

Athletics

Bookstore

Careers



Policies
PRIVACY STATEMENT
Consumer Information
Sexual Respect
































We use cookies to enable essential services and functionality on our site, enhance your user experience, provide a better service through personalized content, collect data on how visitors interact with our site, and enable advertising services.
To accept the use of cookies and continue on to the site, click "I Agree." For more information about our use of cookies and to opt-out of cookies at any time, please refer to our website Privacy Policy.



        I Agree
      

        More Info
      








