
Google Tag Manager






Top Nav - Audience Nav


Students


Admitted Students


Incoming Student Checklist


New Student Orientation


Housing Information


Early Arrival


Move-In Information


Your Advisers




Current Students


GrinnellShare


Academic Catalog


Schedule of Courses


Handshake






Families


Family Resource Guide


Academic Calendar


Academic Catalog


Commencement


Transportation




Faculty and Staff


GrinnellShare


Academic Catalog


Dean's Office




Alumni


Alumni Community


Giving to Grinnell


Volunteering


News and Awards


Events


College Resources






Top Bar - Utility Links - Left


Visit


Apply


Give




Top Bar - Utility Links - Right


News


Calendar


People







      Skip to main content
    








Search Button 











Expand/Collpase Menu





About Grinnell
Expand




Grinnell at a Glance


Leadership and Administration


Grinnell Prize


Grinnell College National Poll






Admission and Aid
Expand




Why Grinnell


Tuition and Financial Aid


Visit Grinnell


Apply to Grinnell






Academics
Expand




Majors and Concentrations


The Academic Experience


Global


Centers, Programs, and Resources


Libraries






Life at Grinnell
Expand




Grinnell, Iowa


Athletics


Student Organizations


Arts & Culture


Campus Living


Transportation






After Grinnell
Expand




Center for Careers, Life, and Service


Experiential Learning


Graduate Outcomes


Alumni Stories


























      CLS Grants & Funding











Expand
                In This Section            




Students


Exploration


Fellowships & Awards


Career Communities


Service and Social Innovation


Grants & Funding


Internships


Policies & Guidelines















Home
After Grinnell
Center for Careers, Life, and Service
Students
Grants & Funding













      CLS Grants & Funding

The Center for Careers, Life, and Service coordinates several funding opportunities to help you engage in experiences that promote your professional and civic growth.





Expand All
Collapse All




            
                  Internship Funding
      
  


        


Current first-, second-, and third-year students may apply for funding to offset the costs of food, transportation, and housing for an 8- to 10-week, full-time unpaid or underpaid internship. The internship must be secured at the time of application.
Funding opportunities are competitive, and look for clarity in presentation, support from the sponsoring organization, academic preparation, and a link to the applicant's interests. They also call for well-defined responsibilities, originality, uniqueness of the internship opportunity, and a clear fit within the specific funding criteria.
Additional information about internship funding is available on GrinnellShare (secure login required).
Back to top




            
                  Professional Development Grants
      
  


        


Professional development grants are designed to support the professional preparation, growth, and development of current third- and fourth-year Grinnell students. Students may apply for professional development funding to offset expenses associated with: 
Acquiring business attire for an interview or related activities (e.g. attending a professional conference)
Attending a professional conference or related professional development program (e.g. registration fees, travel expenses)
Additional information about the professional development grants are available on GrinnellShare (secure login required). 
Back to top




            
                  Interview Grants
      
  


        


Interview grants are designed to facilitate student participation in interviews for full-time positions, post-graduate service opportunities, admission to graduate or professional schools, or related post-graduate endeavors (e.g. post-grad internships). To qualify for this grant, you must be: 
Graduating within the next 12 months
A member of at least one career community
Actively engaged with your career community
Additional information about interview grants is available on GrinnellShare (secure login required). 
Back to top




            
                  Service and Social Innovation Grants
      
  


        


Ragnar Thorisson ’11 Service and Social Innovation (SSI) Project Grants
The CLS offers funding to support collaborative service and social justice projects in and around the Grinnell community. When applying for funding, students are encouraged to think about the context in which they are doing service. Each project should not only address the symptoms of the challenge students are addressing, but also be conscious of the systemic issues that contribute to the challenge itself. 
Service and Social Innovation (SSI) Transportation Grant
This grant offers carpool funding and logistics for groups of at least two students in need of transportation to a volunteer site. The CLS works together with the College's Facilities Management Office to schedule carpool drivers and vehicles. 
Additional information about service and social Innovation grants is available on GrinnellShare (secure login required). 
Back to top
































Request Info

Visit

Apply














1115 8th Avenue
Grinnell, IA 50112

641-269-4000


Directions and Map







Museum of Art

Athletics

Bookstore

Careers



Policies
PRIVACY STATEMENT
Consumer Information
Sexual Respect
































We use cookies to enable essential services and functionality on our site, enhance your user experience, provide a better service through personalized content, collect data on how visitors interact with our site, and enable advertising services.
To accept the use of cookies and continue on to the site, click "I Agree." For more information about our use of cookies and to opt-out of cookies at any time, please refer to our website Privacy Policy.



        I Agree
      

        More Info
      








