
Google Tag Manager






Top Nav - Audience Nav


Students


Admitted Students


Incoming Student Checklist


New Student Orientation


Housing Information


Early Arrival


Move-In Information


Your Advisers




Current Students


GrinnellShare


Academic Catalog


Schedule of Courses


Handshake






Families


Family Resource Guide


Academic Calendar


Academic Catalog


Commencement


Transportation




Faculty and Staff


GrinnellShare


Academic Catalog


Dean's Office




Alumni


Alumni Community


Giving to Grinnell


Volunteering


News and Awards


Events


College Resources






Top Bar - Utility Links - Left


Visit


Apply


Give




Top Bar - Utility Links - Right


News


Calendar


People







      Skip to main content
    








Search Button 











Expand/Collpase Menu





About Grinnell
Expand




Grinnell at a Glance


Leadership and Administration


Grinnell Prize


Grinnell College National Poll






Admission and Aid
Expand




Why Grinnell


Tuition and Financial Aid


Visit Grinnell


Apply to Grinnell






Academics
Expand




Majors and Concentrations


The Academic Experience


Global


Centers, Programs, and Resources


Libraries






Life at Grinnell
Expand




Grinnell, Iowa


Athletics


Student Organizations


Arts & Culture


Campus Living


Transportation






After Grinnell
Expand




Center for Careers, Life, and Service


Experiential Learning


Graduate Outcomes


Alumni Stories


























      3-2 Engineering Program











Expand
                In This Section            




Physics


Major and Requirements


Faculty


Staff


Astronomy


Opportunities


Diversity


Graduate Record Exam


Research


Resources


Sample Schedules


3-2 Engineering Program


Physics Museum















Home
Academics
Majors and Concentrations
Physics
3-2 Engineering Program












Students planning advanced study in engineering may complete a full bachelor of arts course at Grinnell before graduate school, or they can follow a 3-2 program in engineering. The 3-2 program allows students to spend three years at Grinnell and two years in one of the engineering programs with which Grinnell cooperates:
Columbia University
California Institute of Technology
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
Washington University
(Special arrangements can sometimes be made with other institutions.)
Under normal progress the student receives a B.A. degree from Grinnell at the end of the fourth year and a B.S. or B.E. degree from the cooperating institution at the end of the fifth year. 
In either case, the prospective engineer studies the natural sciences as an integral part of a liberal education. Students are required to establish at Grinnell a strong foundation in mathematics, physics, and chemistry. A broad base of knowledge in the humanities and social sciences also is strongly recommended. The required science courses are those taken by any student with a serious interest in science, so a definite commitment to engineering is not necessary until enrollment at the engineering school.
For more information about the 3-2 program, please contact the 3-2 liaison officer, Paul Tjossem.
If you would like to be added to the 3-2 program email list, please contact Erika Jack.
Requirements for transfer to Columbia University, Washington University, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, or California Institute of Technology
Typical Requirements of All Four Schools
(Please check affiliate's individual requirements.) 
Mathematics through Linear Algebra (Math 215) and Differential Equations (Math 220)
Two semesters of physics (Physics 131-132)
One semester of chemistry (Chemistry 129 or 210); more for chemical engineering programs
3.3 GPA; higher GPA is required for some programs and some schools
Special Requirements: Columbia University (Combined Plan)
One course in computing, a knowledge of C, C++, Java, Python, or MATLAB
One course of economics
27 non-technical credit hours
Washington University (Dual Degree) 
One course in computing (CSC 161)
Fifteen hours of humanities and social studies, with at least six hours in humanities and at least three hours in social studies
California Institute of Technology (3-2)
Recommended: two additional courses in physics (Modern Physics and Mechanics)
A year of chemistry
Twenty-four semester hours of humanities and social studies. At least six of these hours must be in humanities (art, history, languages, literature, music, philosophy) and at least six hours must be in social studies (anthropology, economics, political science, psychology).
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (Transfer Admission)
One additional semester of physics
Four courses in humanities and social studies
Persons interested in chemical engineering should have a year of organic chemistry.
Those interested in environmental or biomedical engineering should have some cell biology.
A major at Grinnell must be completed, but credit to complete it can be transferred back from the engineering school. Usually a Grinnell major in chemistry, computer science, mathematics, or physics is required.
Please note that Grinnell College financial aid does not extend to the student's time at the engineering school. Check with the engineering school for their current financial aid policy.




























Request Info

Visit

Apply














1115 8th Avenue
Grinnell, IA 50112

641-269-4000


Directions and Map







Museum of Art

Athletics

Bookstore

Careers



Policies
PRIVACY STATEMENT
Consumer Information
Sexual Respect
































We use cookies to enable essential services and functionality on our site, enhance your user experience, provide a better service through personalized content, collect data on how visitors interact with our site, and enable advertising services.
To accept the use of cookies and continue on to the site, click "I Agree." For more information about our use of cookies and to opt-out of cookies at any time, please refer to our website Privacy Policy.



        I Agree
      

        More Info
      








