
Google Tag Manager






Top Nav - Audience Nav


Students


Admitted Students


Incoming Student Checklist


New Student Orientation


Housing Information


Early Arrival


Move-In Information


Your Advisers




Current Students


GrinnellShare


Academic Catalog


Schedule of Courses


Handshake






Families


Family Resource Guide


Academic Calendar


Academic Catalog


Commencement


Transportation




Faculty and Staff


GrinnellShare


Academic Catalog


Dean's Office




Alumni


Alumni Community


Giving to Grinnell


Volunteering


News and Awards


Events


College Resources






Top Bar - Utility Links - Left


Visit


Apply


Give




Top Bar - Utility Links - Right


News


Calendar


People







      Skip to main content
    








Search Button 











Expand/Collpase Menu





About Grinnell
Expand




Grinnell at a Glance


Leadership and Administration


Grinnell Prize


Grinnell College National Poll






Admission and Aid
Expand




Why Grinnell


Tuition and Financial Aid


Visit Grinnell


Apply to Grinnell






Academics
Expand




Majors and Concentrations


The Academic Experience


Global


Centers, Programs, and Resources


Libraries






Life at Grinnell
Expand




Grinnell, Iowa


Athletics


Student Organizations


Arts & Culture


Campus Living


Transportation






After Grinnell
Expand




Center for Careers, Life, and Service


Experiential Learning


Graduate Outcomes


Alumni Stories




































      Global Grinnell











Expand
                In This Section            




Global


Global Learning


Global Collaborations


About the Institute for Global Engagement















Home
Academics
Global













        
                  Grinnellians turn outward and let the world in.
      
  
    



In fact, we approach every question or situation with this wide-open attitude. Because when you come to know other perspectives, you can better understand the events that shaped history, as well as what’s before you and what’s beyond your view. It’s how you learn to thrive in all kinds of settings and make lifelong connections across the globe.




























The Institute for Global Engagement

        
                  The driving engine for global opportunities, both on campus and beyond.
      
  
    

Off-campus study. Collaboration across departments. Linking campus programs with research efforts, language learning, cultural events, and everything in between. For students and faculty, the Institute of Global Engagement works to advance global initiatives that are well known to Grinnellians, and those on coming up the horizon.


Learn more













        
                  Short-term Programs
      
  
    

At Grinnell, you don’t have to wait until your junior year to travel abroad. Through the Global Learning Program, first- and second-year students can explore specific international issues through interdisciplinary study. Then, over a three-week period, you and your classmates will visit two or more countries, regions, or ecosystems, diving further into the issues you’ve examined back on campus.


Take a Trip












Off-Campus Study

        
                  Semester-Long Study Abroad
      
  
    

The longer you spend in a country, the better you’re able to unpack its history, form meaningful connections, and acquire new understanding for societies different from your own. That’s why 55% of Grinnellians complete some sort of off-campus study, many of them for a full semester. Your experiences abroad can play a critical role in launching new chapters in your academic journey and uncovering intellectual paths you didn’t even know were out there.


Take your Time












The Language Learning Center

        
                  Speaking of new ways of seeing the world, let’s talk. 
      
  
    

Our academic community comes to campus from all over the globe. This exchange of knowledge and culture offers you the perfect chance to explore new languages with expert faculty and students. At the Language Learning Center, you can pursue a long list of language options, starting with Ancient Greek, Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Japanese, Latin, Russian, Spanish, and more.


Start Your Search













        
                  Partnerships and Collaborations
      
  
    

We’re always building connections beyond our campus. It’s part of what we do to sustain the international expertise and cultural discourse that our community is known for. Through partnerships and collaborations, we give our educators the chance to take their studies to new settings, and we bring brand-new voices to the Grinnell faculty.


Explore Further













        
                  Global Grinnell
      
  
    





18%
      
  
    

        
                  of Grinnellians are international students
      
  
    





55%
      
  
    

        
                  of Grinnellians study off-campus
      
  
    





45


        
                  countries and 105 programs are currently hosting Grinnellians
      
  
    






















Request Info

Visit

Apply














1115 8th Avenue
Grinnell, IA 50112

641-269-4000


Directions and Map







Museum of Art

Athletics

Bookstore

Careers



Policies
PRIVACY STATEMENT
Consumer Information
Sexual Respect
































We use cookies to enable essential services and functionality on our site, enhance your user experience, provide a better service through personalized content, collect data on how visitors interact with our site, and enable advertising services.
To accept the use of cookies and continue on to the site, click "I Agree." For more information about our use of cookies and to opt-out of cookies at any time, please refer to our website Privacy Policy.



        I Agree
      

        More Info
      








