Search Images Maps Play YouTube News Gmail Drive More »Sign inBooksMy libraryHelpAdvanced Book SearchDownload EPUBDownload PDFPage imageseBook - FREEGet this book in printAbeBooksOn Demand BooksAmazonFind in a libraryAll sellers » 0 ReviewsWrite reviewMen and Events of Forty Years: Autobiographical Reminiscences of an Active ...By Josiah Bushnell Grinnell  About this bookTerms of Service  Page imagesPDFEPUB




louder shout, “Time's up!” drowning all words of persuasion, with a threat of going to dinner, and causing such a tumult that Mr. Butler, a picture of mortification, sat down, and fearing a second guy as to time, left the superintendent helpless, and the boys masters of the situation.
In the morning I went down to the lawyer's office to take the apology of the school, and the promise of less rudeness on another visit, also my own regrets. “No second visit!” I was mortified. “Before thousands I have spoken in open air; in our higher court for years, with toleration at least; but I never Inet such a rebuff in all my life, and I am clear of another exposure before the vagrants. It was a blunder of course in the fixing of the time, and I had not got to the story. Let it pass. They had too many bull's-eye watches, and it was both the sharp and rough experience in my career as a speaker, for which I blame no one but unwashed Young America.”


Mr. Horace Greeley, the great editor, was often a speaker on temperance, with others less known to fame. The meetings came to be the resort of curious gentlemen in their carriages, and even the notorious Tweed, afterward the convicted plunderer, then an alderman, would be present and slyly hand out a golden eagle in compliment to the service. One Sunday I quite broke down with hoarseness. Mr. Greeley was in the rear of the crowd, but he did not come forward to my relief, as was his custom at various meetings, when called upon for the closing words.
I made my way to the Tribune office the next morning to chide Mr. Greeley for not coming to my aid in an emergency, saying my last effort was made. “Well,” said he, “the crowd was large, and I did not like to push through it; but you are laid by, no doubt; only don't get ready for a fashionable European health trip, or to lounge in the city, which is no place to stay except with occupation and good health. Go West, young man, go West. There is health in the country, and room away from our crowds of idlers and imbeciles.” “That,” I said, “is very frank advice, but it is medicine easier given than taken. It is a wide country, but I do not know just where to go.” “It is all room away from the pavements. I want some one at once to take a trip for the Tribune, and write me from the Illinois State Fair, at Springfield. You can do it. Solon Robinson, the agricultural editor, says you have knowledge of animals. I doted on the trip myself; but you make the best report you can. I will see that you have railway passage, and will write you a letter which will secure you attention and a chance to do us service, and make a spread in your own way.”








This is the letter he handed me:


NEw York, Sept. 25, 1833. Mr. J. B. Grinnell of this city visits the Illinois Agricultural State Fair at Springfield, Ill., and will report therefrom for The Tribune. I pray you to show him whatever courtesy you may fairly do, and enable him to give us a full report of the Fair. Yours, HoRACE GREELEY. To the editor of the State Journal, Springfield, Ill. 


I had a fine time every way, and made a lengthy report which was acceptable, and opened the way indirectly for much that follows in narration.
This answers the queries and gives the facts in regard to the more than legendary counsel, “Go West, young man, go West”— a shot at thousands of dullards since my day; I was the young man whom Mr. Greeley told to go, and I went. I have never found occasion to regret the fact that I was a protégé of his —a life-long correspondent and friend. I record the warm tribute of my heart to the greatest American Journalist, who not only made public my “Badger” letters, but received and printed what would be equal to a volume, in praise of Iowa. On his last visit to our state he wrote that he had seen the model city, in respect to morals and education. 


THE PLAN OF SETTLEMENT.


My voice being impaired, the delicacy of my child requiring the tonic of country air, furnished strong and added inducements to make plans for western emigration. On returning from my western and Missouri trip, I elaborated a scheme which the stupidity of another, with several casualties, would not allow to go into full execution. In the New York Tribune and New York Independent I advertised for correspondence with parties desirous of educational facilities, and of temperance and Congregational affinities, who wished to settle on some new western railroad or one projected.
“Colonist” was my address, and both Mr. Greeley and Joshua Leavitt had vouched for the character and good faith of “Colonist.” Then I wrote short articles in the line of my project, against isolated emigration and in favor of associating for fraternal social good.






Each year of my western stay has confirmed its philosophy, and, had I met a failure, the advantages of homeogeneous settlement could not be gainsaid. It brought a legion of answers, with troops of professionals and aspiring marshals, as if sure of the privates for troops. I wish they were at hand in refutation of Bellamy and his Utopian romance, “Looking Backward,” before k a possible new edition—a burlesque on the facts in human nature as revealed by my project. Those comfortable in riding are not found voluntarily taking a walk, or drawing a load in traces, if having honestly earned and paid for an easy passage. Our scheme was a plain rural life, with patience to wait and grow, like the products of agriculture, to the stage of fruit, shade, culture and repose for age. My scheme I knew was not Utopian, but broad, generous and beneficent; and I now see that it was by an unseen hand I was led and upheld. The following, from The Independent, was one of the articles to which I refer:


An advertisement in The Independent relating to a Western enterprise, seems to furnish occasion for a brief discussion of a topic with manifold relations. The tide of emigration westward, whether for good or for ill, can no more be stayed than the course of the gulf-stream. The late census returns furnish proof of the general health of the western states. Owners of stocks valued at a hundred millions of dollars, invite the enterprising to make a home on new soil, to subserve the interests of both capitalist and producer. The last year, the present and the next, will span the prairies and groves, hitherto almost without an inhabitant, with more than a thousand miles of railroad; so that the hardships of frontier life shall no more be brought to mind by the multitudes of pioneers “ticketed through" to the cheapest and most fertile lands on the continent. Landholders in the east are buying out the small proprietors; and while the vocation of a farmer is yearly becoming more profitable and honorable, rich soil westward, only a two days’ journey distant, will be purchased at $5 the acre, rather than inferior soil eastward at $50. Economical considerations, combined with the adventurous spirit and modern facilities for traveling, will secure the transfer of a numerous people to new homes on the course of “the star of empire’’. Not those alone of undefined opinions, and wanting position in the home of their youth, will change their abode. Churches now weak are to suffer a severe depletion. A Presbyterian minister in western New York writes me: “I am almost discouraged; my most enterprising men, and the very best families are going West.” A letter received last week from a pastor in Berkshire County, Massachusetts, contains the following passage: “The course of business is such in our country as to be steadily draining the very life-blood out of these mountain districts. We are steadily losing ground, and I see no practicable way of helping it. Almost all of our enterprising youth of both sexes leave us when they reach maturity, and our best families are emigrating to the West.” How, then, should such persons go West? Observation in the West, and a careful study of the whole question, prompts this answer: In companies, with 


r 






persons of congenial, moral and religious sentiments, embracing mechanics, and pecuniary ability to make the school and the Church paramount and attractive institutions from the outset. To name the reasons for this opinion is enough. It will contribute to the protection of those emigrating. In the northwest, there are thousands of persons lost to the Church by removal. They have made a home distant from their denomination, and are seldom in church; or they are surrounded by denominations with whom they do not choose to unite while there is hope in the future of enjoying their own. “Hope deferred” relaxes exertion; and soon the once fair and flourishing professor is seen relapsing in his principles, and with perverted taste, conformed to the irreligious habits of frontier life. Observation has proved that those who are strangers, and do not in their new home from the first avow their religious convictions, may never do it. Their excuse “that they find nothing in the Church as it used to be at home,” may not be valid, while their removal from the presence of congenial friends, will prove the shipwreck of their principles. “My people are so scattered!” is the mournful expression of many a home missionary; for well they know that a monthly hearing of the Word ordinarily fails to secure the fruits which the pastoral relation contemplates. This is the condition of thousands of families, which cannot at present be remedied, since a change of home is not so easily made, and there is a lack of ministers even to supply the organized churches. If it be said that the Christian should be a light everywhere, and as leaven among the ungodly, the position will not be denied; but the facts are, the few yield to the many, and a single Christian family or a few poor families can effect but little in a community where there is a strong preorganized irreligious sentiment. A weak society may be formed with the best of principles, but, from its pecuniary dependence, only to be led and perverted by designing men, to the dishonor of religion, and, as numerous localities evidence, inflicting a blow on a given denomination, from which it will require years to recover. The Bishops of Ireland complain that one-half the Catholics emigrating to America are lost to the Church; and having studied the causes of this loss, Rome prefers that her adherents should dwell near to the priest and the Church in poverty, rather than with plenty and distant from the Church. Protestants may learn from their enemies the methods in order to preservation and power. A lesson may be known from towns in Vermont, New York, Ohio and Illinois, which were settled by a heterogeneous people, distracted by numerous sects, and which still lack that absorbing element of influence which in towns adjacent, settled by congenial spirits, has sustained schools and seminaries, and an able ministry, all contributing to a still greater assimilation. Organized emigration becomes a Christian duty, if a new home is sought. There is a natural proclivity to the strong side, and a horror of minorities. Bad men in new neighborhoods, in the presence of strong Christian men, have often given up controversy, and from motives of peace and policy, have placed themselves within the reach of the minister's voice, which has eventuated in their conversion. In the time of rebellion, government is respected according to the number and character of forces sent to quell the outbreak; and the force and position of Christians in the frontier States, determine their influence on the all-abounding errors, and whether Christ's triumph shall be early and complete, or delayed indefinitely. Government erects the light-house at such a height, and with a given number of lamps. Fitful, chance lights on the shore will not suffice in the nights of darkness and storm; no more will single Christians, mostly poor, and of necessity secular in their pursuits, scattered through the West, effect that which requires to be
done by a combination of influence. If Christians, then, would unite to this end “the solitary place shall be glad for them,” and the report would go out through the land, “there are the profits of godliness and conquests for Christ.” There are social and material bearings of this question, which deserve a brief mention. We are made for society; society is not “got up to order,” like a military company for an emergency. But persons with a common aim, of the same faith, and with a free will, embarking together, will find a variety of pleasing correspondence in a new home, where all are called to the same trials, and inspired with kindred hopes. We remember the glowing countenances of our fathers, rehearsing the story of days when, with a brother's spirit, they laid the foundations which are now justly their children's pride and joy. The trials we need not know in full, borne, as we may be, by steam to the prairies, long smiling with invitations for the stranger; but enongh remains of toil and devotion to the generations that come after, to perpetuate friendship through prospered years to old age. Constructing a social and religious habit, and not complaining over that which cannot be remedied, is the proper employment, and contributes to real affinity, happiness and strength of character. The economies of this question are evident. Where there are numbers, the pecuniary burdens of the Church and school are divided, and every valued institution rendered really more valuable. Lands adjacent to the Christian colonies are held in the market at a much higher price than those in the vicinity of a medley class of people. A number of families in one company may purchase merchandise and materials for house-building at much lower rates than the immigrant alone; and public spirit, in the laying-out of grounds, and in ornamental culture, will affect, at a little expense, that which individual enterprise could not achieve. Persons with a common interest, settled by the stream of water, or near a coalbed, can, with economy, establish those factories which every consideration of political economy requires in the West. The farmers, uniting their funds, can purchase patent reapers and mowers, and other great labor-saving inventions of this age, yet beyond the reach of the isolated farmers. Stock and wool-growers, at a small cost to each, can secure the best bloods, and such advantages from their introduction as are now only known in a few wealthy localities. We forbear to enumerate advantages further. If it be said that some may leave the company, we answer, their vacancy will invite good rather than bad men. If failures are in memory, the answer is, not on virgin soil, in a free state,








in this day of railroads. J. B. G.





How CAME THE LOCATION ?


A slave state — Missouri—I hinted at, as we had an estate there of 640 acres. That cooled the ardor of correspondents. One wrote that he proposed to keep his sentiments but “learn his trade without prison stripes on him.” The decision not to go to Missouri came in this way: I had made proposals for a land purchase forty miles west of Hannibal and had friendly answers, and a welcome from slave owners, provided I “did not meddle with their property.” I shook hands with a gallant colonel over what I now see was a deep chasm as we parted; for this colonel, after



« PreviousContinue »